In this lecture, you'll learn about cryptography, which is the process of transforming readable plain
text messages into an unintelligible form, and then the later reversal of process, cryptography can
be used to send sensitive data securely over an untrusted network such as the Internet, and it uses
authentication and encryption methods to do that.
Cryptography provides these services to the data, first up, authenticity, which is proof of source,
so proving that they are really did come from you think it came from their own confidentiality, which
is privacy and secrecy.
So you can send the data over an untrusted network.
And if even if somebody else is able to sniff out traffic, they're not able to read it.
And integrity, meaning it's for sure, is not being changed in transit.
And finally, non repudiation, which is quite similar to authenticity, to authenticity, proves that
you are talking to who you think you're talking to.
Non repudiation means also they cannot deny it was Van Lether.
OK, so with our cryptography, we've got both symmetric and asymmetric encryption with symmetric encryption,
the same shared key move, encrypt and decrypt the data and you can think of a key basically as being
similar to a password.
So with symmetric encryption, that shared key is known by both the sender and the receiver, and it
must be kept secret.
They're the only two parties that know about it.
Symmetric encryption is fast through because of what is used for large transmissions such as email,
secure web traffic, https, and also IP check for VPN tunnels that will be talking about later.
Algorithms that are used for symmetric encryption include there's triple there's as s and SEAL days
and triple days are really older algorithms now.
So varsities insecure, not used to commonly know.
More commonly used today would be AEF.
So let's have a look at how symmetric encryption works and how it provides confidentiality.
See here we've got the host on the left and it's got some data that says hello.
And we want to send that securely to the host on the right over the untrusted network.
So the host on the left encrypts the of hello with the shared key of one, two, three.
And when it does, it comes out with garbled encrypted there.
As you can see down at the bottom here is then that encrypted data which is sent across the untrusted
network.
So if there's anybody on untrusted network that is able to sniff out data, they can sniff it.
But it's not a problem because we can't read the actual data that we are sending.
They only see the encrypted garbled copy.
It then comes out the intended target, the host on the right still in the encrypted format.
It then decrypts it with the same shared key of one, two, three in our example, and it then comes
out in readable format again of hello.
So that's how we were able to get that sensitivity of halloo across from the left hand side over to
the right hand side, over the untrusted network securely.
OK, so that was symmetric encryption, there is also asymmetric encryption as well, and asymmetric
encryption uses private and public key players to deal with semantic encryption.
It's a share.
It's the same shared key on both sides with asymmetric encryption.
It's a private and public key pair.
The way it works is they are encrypted with the public.
He can only be decrypted with the private key and vice versa.
So anything decrypted with the public, he can only be decrypted with the private key.
Anything encrypted with the private key can only be decrypted with the public key.
If something's encrypted with the public key, it cannot be decrypted with the public key.
And if something's been encrypted with the private key, it cannot be decrypted with the private key
server like a male female of each other.
Own only the private key must be kept secret with our asymmetric encryption, the public, he can be
shared everywhere.
You see how this works as we go through this lecture on the next.
So the public, as I just said, can be available everywhere, it can be known in the public domain
with asymmetric encryption is slow as compared to symmetric encryption.
So because this is used for smaller transmission, like exchanging our symmetric keys and also digital
signatures, I'll explain how those work later on in the section.
Algorithms for asymmetric encryption include Oddisee and the same.
So let's have a look at asymmetric encryption and action to N.V. example here, the host on the left
has got the public key and the host and the right has got the matching private key.
How we can use asymmetric encryption for confidentiality.
First to hear the host on the left has the public key of the host and right.
And it wants to send the data of Hommel over there securely so it takes out the flow and encrypts it
with the host on the right public key.
So it does right.
And it then comes up with the garbled data.
Now here the host on the left does not know the private key, the host and right.
It only knows the public key to encrypted data for the host and right with its public key, the host
on the right public key.
And it then sends it over the network that comes in.
The host on the right comes in is the encrypted garbled data, then decrypt it with its private key
and it comes out with the original data of hello.
Now with this, it allows anybody to send data security to the host with the private key because all
hosts are allowed to have the public keep the host on the right with the private key is the only one
that has the private key.
Nobody else has that.
So it's the only one that can read the message.
Again, if something's encrypted with the public key, it can only be decrypted with private key, not
with the public key.
So the host on the right is the only one that can read any messages that have been encrypted with its
public key Oberhauser with the public.
He cannot read that message.
All right, so that's how it works for confidentiality.
We can also use asymmetric encryption for authentication and non repudiation here.
The traffic is going to be initiated from the right hand side.
Again, it's Hosten, right, with the private key post on the left has got the matching public key
to the host.
On the right has got some data which says hello, encrypt it with its private key, then sends via encrypted
copy of it over the untrusted network to the host on the left, the host on the left then and then decrypt
it with the host on the right public key.
And it comes out with the same original idea of hello.
Then to hear the host on the left could have said to the host, the right, OK, if you are who I think
you are, take this day of hello.
Encrypt it with your private key and send it back to me who is going right then does what it comes back
to the host in the left decrypt it and it does say hello, which is what it was expecting.
So it now knows who is talking to the host.
It thinks it's talking to you over on the right.
It's authenticated it and also the host and right.
Cannot deny that later because it's the only one that would have been capable of doing that, because
it's the only one with the private key.
So that provides authenticity, of course, with the private key, all receivers need to know what is
the genuine public key for this to work?
Next thing is Mark Hosh based message authentication codes and SCHMOCK codes provide data integrity
to make sure that it has not been altered in transit.
The sender creates a hash value from the data to be sent using asymmetric he.
The hash value is then appended to the data.
The receiver hashes with the same shared key when it receives it.
And if a hash values are the same, but not proof that the data has not been altered in transit.
This is also used for large transmissions.
For example, email, secure web traffic and IP and algorithms include M.V. five on shot.
So you're looking at how each could work here, the host on the left has got the data which says hello,
then hashes with the shared key of one, two, three, and it comes out with a hash, which is in a
garbled format, as you see here.
Then when it sends the data across the network, it's got the original data which says hello, and it's
got the hash value appended to that.
That comes in the host on the right.
It sees with the and the hash, then it hashes the with the same shared key of one, two, three.
And if the hash value matches and the right is what it was in the way after which was sent over, that
means that the data has not been altered in transit.
Now, with the example here, you can see that we sent the data in plain text there.
So what the H.
Markku does is it just checks.
There is no altered in transit.
Now, normally the data will be encrypted as well.
So normally here we would have the data encrypted with a symmetric key.
We're also taking a hash value as well, should by encrypting the data that provides the confidentiality,
having the code that provides the integrity to be using BOV in combination with each other.
Next thing is key distribution, so cryptography can be used to send sensitive data securely over an
untrusted network, as you've just seen on symmetric key encryption is used for bulk data transmissions
because asymmetric encryption is too slow for that Wolf.
Key, with our symmetric encryption, each side needs to know the shared key, and this can lead to
a key distribution problems.
Let me explain what the problem is.
So, for example, when you buy something online, you want your credit card details to be encrypted
over the Internet.
You don't want anybody else seeing your credit card details.
Now, the online store can't send you the shift key over the same Internet channel.
It's not secure.
So if you're shopping online there and somebody sniffing your traffic and the online store sends you
the shared key overwriting net connection, then anybody that's sniffing it can see this year key so
they can read the data that comes later.
They can still read your credit card details.
So for that shared key to be shared with you, we need to have a secure out of bond method of doing
it, not sending it over the same Internet connection.
And obviously it's not practical.
The online store for not every single customer, every time there is an online purchase.
So we need some other way of getting a shared key over on both sides of the link about key distribution
problem.
And the solution for that is PCI public key infrastructure.
PKI uses a trusted introducer, which is the certificate authority for the two parties who need the
secure communication.
Both parties need to trust the certificate authority and act as a go between which allows them to share
shared key securely.
And I'll show you how the process works in the next lecture.